Everybody here at the Denver airport and I'm going to keep it short so I don't annoy my
fellow guest here.
But the one thing I started playing with was seeing how small I could get an LLM.
And as a joke, I did a post on Reddit about a one-parameter LLM.
And all it would do is look and see if you said Scarlett or Johansson.
And then it would just gush about Scarlett Johansson, her voice, her Oscar, were the
performance and how no way I could ever recreate that beautiful voice of hers.
So kind of a dig at Steve Altman.
It turned out there is such a thing as a one-parameter model and there's such a thing as a zero-parameter
model, which seemed crazy.
So a zero-parameter model is a model that is just an echo model.
Like let's say you send it true, it returns true.
If you send it false, it returns false.
Just returns whatever token you send it.
And it can only take one token.
But it does have a logical purpose, which determines whether statements are true or
false.
If you can condense your statement on an earlier stage of the pipeline to true or false and
you feed it to this, it'll let you know if it's true or false.
And you could do that as an output token.
So it's kind of strange.
So then I was like, OK, I've done zero, I've done one, the two smallest models in the world
really fast, by the way.
And then I moved from then I moved to like 10x every time.
So instead of like doubling, I'm doing 10x the size of the model every time.
And right now I'm at 500 million parameters.
I was certain in the early stages, I said, let's teach it math.
Let's teach it logic.
I taught it logic first, like Boolean logic.
And I taught it math.
I taught the Socratic dialogues, you know, Plato.
I kind of followed the Western canon because that's what I understand.
After it got good at proving things to give it a moral compass, I did the new testament.
I did without all the genealogy stuff, which I'm not a theologist, but I don't see the
purpose of training a model to do all that.
And a really interesting thing is that earlier versions of the model, they're all mathematically
provable.
And I've created some proofs, actually went on fire and hired a very nice mathematician, a
Muslim mathematician from Pakistan who verified everything was mathematically correct.
Once you incorporate like the entire English language, there's a lot of stuff that like if I
say Adam is a jerk, how do you prove that when we're allowed?
So I divided English into English that can be proven and English that can't be proven.
So Adam is six foot 10 that that can be proven.
Adam is a jerk, cannot be proven.
And so that's where I am.
It's really a pretty useful model already.
And the smaller models are super useful at doing things like playing chess or at doing
things like investigating whether you have network intrusion in real time because they're
so fast.
And by fast, I mean that my model to detect network intrusion operates in 14 microseconds and
llama eight billion, pretty small model, llama eight billion takes about 253 milliseconds, and
they get similar results.
And I would argue that mine are more logically accurate.
Like they have my models have perfect accuracy, but the time and only useful for very
mathy logic, you sort of things.
So where do we go from here?
I mean, I have the 500 billion parameter model.
I started having it look at all the logic in the Bible and to say, hey, is Jesus argument
about if you're a Christian, you'll know the argument about render and disease.
So it analyzes that argument says that Jesus actually got it right that they're trying to
get them on the horns of the dilemma.
But it turned out that they were framing the question improperly.
And that's what he called them out on.
So kind of interesting stuff.
And if you're not Christian, if that first statement, true equals true requires faith, you
have to admit that there is such a thing as truth.
If you say no, everything's relative and it's different for Christian, the Muslim, the Hindu,
the Buddhist, they all have different versions of truth and there's no trick or true.
And this logic is not going to make any sense to you.
And there are parts of the world that it doesn't make any sense.
This is a very Western scientific method thing.
But if you say God is the truth and the light and whatever Jesus.
And you say that faith, the true equals true, there is such a thing as truth and right and
wrong, then that can be your how this logic starts.
And let's say you're an atheist and say, I don't believe in that stuff.
I do believe there is truth.
I mean, I can mathematically prove something true.
You can just substitute God in the first step with the scientific method.
Makes no difference.
The logic is sound regardless of where the.
That's the first axiom and you got to start somewhere.
So that first axiom is true equals true.
And either that's true or it's not.
So anyway, thank you for this short thing.
I'll try to blur out all the people that didn't ask to be on my podcast and I will talk to you
later. Thanks a lot.
Bye.